---
id: 'bootcamp'
title: 'Boot Camp'
---

**Welcome to the Boot Camp!** If you've been here before and you want to get
going, **skip down to the [tutorials](#tutorials)**. If you're ready to start on a
small project, skip down to learn about **grabbing a [ticket](#tickets)**. If this
is your first time, **learn a little bit [about Boot Camp](#what-is-boot-camp)**
and then **[get started](#get-started)**.

## What is Boot Camp?

Nebula Labs is a student organization that aims to help students learn and
develop skills in web development. To achieve this goal, the organization has
developed a comprehensive tutorial program covering HTML, CSS, JavaScript,
TypeScript, React, and Next.js. The program, called Boot Camp, is designed to
cater to students with varying levels of experience, from beginners to advanced
learners.

The program begins with HTML and CSS tutorials from Freecodecamp, which provide
a solid foundation for web development. Students learn how to create basic web
pages and style them using CSS. They also learn about responsive design, which
is critical for creating websites that work on different devices and screen
sizes.

After mastering HTML and CSS, students move on to JavaScript and TypeScript
tutorials from MDN docs. JavaScript is a crucial programming language used in
web development, and TypeScript is a superset of JavaScript that provides
additional features such as static typing, making it easier to write and
maintain code. In these tutorials, students learn about variables, data types,
functions, arrays, objects, loops, conditionals, and other fundamental concepts
of programming.

With a solid understanding of HTML, CSS, JavaScript, and TypeScript, students
then move on to React tutorials from the official React documentation. React is
a popular JavaScript library used for building user interfaces. Students learn
how to create components, manage state, handle events, and use React hooks to
add functionality to their applications.

Finally, students learn about Next.js, a framework for building server-side
rendered React applications, from the official Next.js documentation. With
Next.js, students can create fast and SEO-friendly web applications that can
handle a high volume of traffic. They learn how to create pages, routes, and
dynamic content using data fetching.

Overall, the tutorial program from Nebula Labs is comprehensive and
well-structured, covering all the essential concepts and tools required for web
development. By the end of the program, students should have the skills and
knowledge needed to build their own web applications using HTML, CSS,
JavaScript, TypeScript, React, and Next.js.

## Get Started

Before you start with Nebula Labs tutorial program, you'll need to set up a
development environment and install the prerequisite technology. You can choose
to install tools onto your local machine or use a cloud-based code editing
tools.

### Local Development

You can use any text editor or IDE (Integrated Development Environment) of your
choice to write HTML, CSS, JavaScript, TypeScript, React, and Next.js code.
Some popular options include Visual Studio Code, Sublime Text, Atom, and
WebStorm.

Here are the prerequisite technologies you'll need to install to follow along
with the Nebula Labs tutorial program:

#### Git

Git is a version control system used for tracking changes in code. You'll need
to install Git on your computer to clone the repositories used in the
tutorials. You can download Git from the official website:
https://git-scm.com/downloads

#### Node.js

Node.js is a JavaScript runtime environment used for running JavaScript code
outside of a web browser. You'll need to install Node.js on your computer to
run the React and Next.js applications. You can download Node.js from the
official website: https://nodejs.org/en/download/

Once you've installed Git and Node.js, you can open up your terminal or command
prompt and check that they're installed correctly by running the following
commands:

```
git --version
node --version
npm --version
```

If everything is installed correctly, you should see the version number for
Git, Node.js, and npm (Node Package Manager).

That's it! You're now ready to get started with the Nebula Labs tutorial
program.

### Cloud-based Code Editing Tools

Cloud-based code editing tools can be a great option for those who don't want
to install software on their local machine. Three popular options are GitHub
Codespaces, Gitpod, and Replit.

#### GitHub Codespaces

GitHub Codespaces allows you to create a cloud-based development environment
that is accessible from anywhere with an internet connection. You can use
Codespaces to write, run, and debug your code, as well as collaborate with
others.

To use Codespaces, you'll need a GitHub account and a repository with your
code. You can then create a new Codespace for your repository by clicking the
"Code" button and selecting "New Codespace". This will create a new virtual
machine with your code pre-installed and ready to go.

For more information on getting started with GitHub Codespaces, check out the
official documentation: https://docs.github.com/en/codespaces/getting-started

#### Gitpod

Gitpod is another cloud-based code editing tool that provides a fully
configured development environment in the cloud. You can use Gitpod to write,
run, and debug your code, as well as collaborate with others.

To use Gitpod, you'll need a GitHub, GitLab, or Bitbucket account and a
repository with your code. You can then create a new Gitpod workspace for your
repository by adding "gitpod.io#" to the beginning of your repository's URL.
For example, if your repository URL is
"https://github.com/username/repository", you can create a Gitpod workspace by
visiting "https://gitpod.io/#https://github.com/username/repository".

For more information on getting started with Gitpod, check out the official
documentation: https://www.gitpod.io/docs/getting-started/

#### Replit

Replit.com is a similar cloud-based development environment that supports a
variety of programming languages. It also provides features such as version
control, collaboration, and deployment. Replit is particularly useful for
beginners as it offers a number of templates and starter projects to help you
get started quickly.

For more information on getting started with Gitpod, check out the official
documentation: https://docs.replit.com/getting-started/intro-replit

#### Free Usage Limits

Cloud-based tools can be very helpful, but full usage is often paid. Luckily,
most services offer generous free tiers.

GitHub Codespaces offers a free tier that includes:

- Up to 6 hours of continuous usage per month
- 50 GB of storage per user
- A single, shared CPU

For more information on pricing for GitHub Codespaces, check out the official
documentation:
https://docs.github.com/en/codespaces/codespaces-for-visual-studio/pricing-for-codespaces-for-visual-studio

Gitpod offers a free tier that includes:

- Up to 50 hours of usage per month
- 1 GB of storage
- 2 vCPUs
- 4 GB of RAM

You can use these free tiers to get started with the Nebula Labs tutorial program
without incurring any costs.

For more information on pricing for Gitpod, check out the official
documentation: https://www.gitpod.io/pricing/

### Mentors

Nebula Labs has a team of experienced mentors who are available to help
recruits through the learning process. If you have any questions or need help
setting up your development environment, our mentors are here to help.

Once you have completed the tutorials on HTML, CSS, JavaScript, TypeScript,
React, and Next.js, you can ask a mentor for a ticket from one of the Nebula
Labs projects. This will give you the opportunity to work on a real project and
gain practical experience.

If you get stuck with an issue at any point during the project, don't hesitate
to ask a mentor for help. They can provide guidance and support to help you
overcome any challenges you may encounter.

You can use cloud-based code editing tools like GitHub Codespaces and Gitpod to
get a development environment based on each of the repositories. This will
allow you to work on the project with nothing but a browser.

To get started with working on a project and to request assistance from a
mentor, simply flag down a mentor or ask in the Boot Camp channel on Discord
Our mentors will be happy to help you.

## Tutorials

You're ready to get started with the tutorials! Depending on what topics you
already know, you may skip ahead.

### HTML

HTML (Hypertext Markup Language) is a standard markup language used for
creating web pages. It provides a way to structure content on a web page and
define its layout. To get started with HTML, you can follow the tutorial
provided by Freecodecamp.

In this tutorial, you'll learn the basics of HTML, including how to create
headings, paragraphs, links, images, lists, tables, forms, and more. You'll
also learn about the semantic elements introduced in HTML5 and how to use them
to improve the accessibility and SEO of your web pages.

To begin learning HTML, you can start with the following tutorial:
https://www.freecodecamp.org/learn/responsive-web-design/#basic-html-and-html5

### CSS

CSS (Cascading Style Sheets) is a styling language used for adding visual
styles to web pages. It provides a way to control the layout, colors, fonts,
and other visual aspects of a web page. To get started with CSS, you can follow
the tutorial provided by Freecodecamp.

In this tutorial, you'll learn the basics of CSS, including how to select
elements, add styles to them, use CSS units, create layouts, and more. You'll
also learn about responsive design and how to create web pages that work on
different devices and screen sizes.

To begin learning CSS, you can start with the following tutorial:
https://www.freecodecamp.org/learn/responsive-web-design/#basic-css

#### Tailwind

In favor of plain CSS, Nebula labs uses a utility-first CSS framework called
Tailwind. Tailwind CSS is a popular utility-first CSS framework that allows you
to rapidly build custom user interfaces. Instead of writing custom CSS styles
from scratch, you can use Tailwind's pre-defined classes to quickly style your
HTML elements. Tailwind's classes are designed to be highly reusable and
configurable, so you can easily customize your styles to match your design
requirements.

Tailwind offers a comprehensive set of utility classes for common CSS
properties such as padding, margin, typography, and color. You can also use
Tailwind to create complex layouts and responsive designs, without having to
write complex CSS code.

To get started with Tailwind, you can install it using a package manager like
npm or yarn, and then include its CSS file in your HTML document. You can then
start using Tailwind's utility classes in your HTML elements to apply styles.
For example, to add padding to an element, you can use the `p-` prefix followed
by a number to specify the amount of padding, like `p-4`.

Tailwind also provides a powerful configuration file that allows you to
customize the framework to your specific needs. You can use this file to define
your own custom colors, fonts, breakpoints, and more.

To learn more about using Tailwind CSS, you can check out the official
documentation at https://tailwindcss.com/docs.

### JavaScript

JavaScript is a programming language used for adding interactivity to web
pages. It provides a way to add dynamic behavior to web pages, such as
responding to user input, manipulating the DOM, and making AJAX requests. To
get started with JavaScript, you can follow the tutorial provided by MDN docs.

In this tutorial, you'll learn the basics of JavaScript, including how to write
variables, data types, functions, arrays, objects, loops, conditionals, and
more. You'll also learn about the browser environment and how to interact with
the DOM using JavaScript.

To begin learning JavaScript, you can start with the following tutorial:
https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/JavaScript/First_steps

#### TypeScript

TypeScript is a superset of JavaScript that provides additional features such
as static typing, making it easier to write and maintain code. While it is not
required to use React and Next.js, Nebula projects will use TypeScript to
enforce better code.

Now that you have learned JavaScript, you can quickly learn the features that
TypeScript adds. In this tutorial, you'll learn the basics of TypeScript,
including how to define types, write functions, use interfaces, work with
classes, and more. You'll also learn about the benefits of using TypeScript,
specifically its advanced type system.

To begin learning TypeScript, you can start with the following tutorial:
https://www.typescriptlang.org/docs/handbook/typescript-in-5-minutes.html

### React

React is a popular JavaScript library used for building user interfaces. To get
started with React, you can follow the tutorial provided by the official React
documentation.

In this tutorial, you'll learn the basics of React, including how to create
components, manage state, handle events, and use React hooks to add
functionality to your applications. You'll also learn about the React component
lifecycle and how to work with JSX, a syntax extension that allows you to write
HTML-like code in your JavaScript files.

To begin learning React, you can start with the following tutorial:
https://beta.reactjs.org/

After installing React, you should start with the "Quick Start" section. Once
you get some experience using the Tic-Tac-Toe tutorial, move on to the "Learn
React" series for an in-depth exploration of React. Feel free to contact a
mentor if you need assistance navigating the React tutorial.

### Next.js

Next.js is a popular open-source React framework for building server-side
rendered (SSR) web applications. It provides a number of features that make it
easy to build fast, SEO-friendly web applications, such as automatic code
splitting, server-side rendering, and static site generation.

Next.js also includes support for TypeScript out of the box, making it easy to
write type-safe applications.

To get started with Next.js, you'll need to have Node.js and npm installed on
your machine. You can then create a new Next.js project by running the
following commands in your terminal:

```
npx create-next-app my-app
cd my-app
npm run dev
```

This will create a new Next.js project and start a development server.

To learn more about Next.js, check out the official tutorial:
https://nextjs.org/learn/foundations/from-react-to-nextjs/getting-started-with-nextjs

If you want to review JavaScript and React without going through the full
tutorials for each, Next.js also offers a quick review:
https://nextjs.org/learn/foundations/

Once you have completed the tutorial, you can start building your own Next.js
applications. If you get stuck or need help along the way, don't hesitate to
reach out to one of our mentors for assistance. They can provide guidance and
support to help you overcome any challenges you may encounter.

## Tickets

As part of Boot Camp, you'll have the opportunity to work on real projects and
gain practical experience. These projects are broken down into smaller tasks,
called tickets, which you can work on individually or as part of a team.

To receive a ticket, simply reach out to one of our mentors and ask for one.
They will assign you a ticket based on your interests and current skill level.
Once you have been assigned a ticket, you can start working on it right away.
You may also choose to work on the ticket outside of Nebula After Hours.

We recommend that recruits aim to finish at least three tickets during their
time in the tutorial program. This will give you the opportunity to work on a
variety of projects and gain experience with different technologies and tools.

If you get stuck with an issue while working on a ticket, don't hesitate to
reach out to a mentor for help. They can provide guidance and support to help
you overcome any challenges you may encounter.

Once you have completed a ticket, submit your work to the mentor that assigned
you the ticket. You can do this by opening a [Pull
Request](https://docs.github.com/en/pull-requests/collaborating-with-pull-requests/proposing-changes-to-your-work-with-pull-requests/creating-a-pull-request).
If you don't know how to do this, feel free to reach out to a mentor for
assistance. They will review your work and provide feedback. If your work meets
the project requirements, you will be credited with completing the ticket.

Completing tickets is a great way to demonstrate your skills and gain practical
experience working on real projects. We encourage you to take advantage of this
opportunity to build your portfolio and showcase your abilities to potential
employers.
